docs/gemstash-customize.7.md, before:

<!--Automatically generated by Pandoc -->

# Customizing the Server

Although Gemstash is designed for as minimal setup as possible, there
may be times you will want to change some of the default configuration.
By the end of this guide, you will be able to customize some of the
Gemstash behavior, including where files are stored, what database
Gemstash uses, and how Gemstash caches certain requests.

## Setup

Several customizable options are available via an interactive Gemstash
command. Run `gemstash setup` and answer the questions it provides (a
blank answer will use the default value):

> $ gemstash setup  
> Where should files go? \[\~/.gemstash\]  
> Cache with what? \[MEMORY, memcached\] **memcached**  
> What is the comma separated Memcached servers? \[localhost:11211\]  
> What database adapter? \[SQLITE3, postgres, mysql, mysql2\]
> **postgres**  
> Where is the database? \[postgres:///gemstash\]  
> Checking that the cache is available  
> Checking that the database is available  
> The database is not available  

Once you’ve answered the questions, some checks will be made to ensure
the configuration will work. For example, the database didn’t exist in
the previous example, so the command failed and the configuration wasn’t
saved. If the command passes, you may provide the `--redo` option to
force configuration to be redone:

> `$ gemstash setup --redo`  
> Where should files go? \[\~/.gemstash\]  
> Cache with what? \[MEMORY, memcached\] **memcached**  
> What is the comma separated Memcached servers? \[localhost:11211\]  
> What database adapter? \[SQLITE3, postgres, mysql, mysql2\]  
> Checking that the cache is available  
> Checking that the database is available  
> You are all setup\!  

Once all checks have passed, Gemstash will store your answers in the
configuration file located at `~/.gemstash/config.yml`.

## Files

Storage in Gemstash defaults to `~/.gemstash` unless otherwise
specified. You can change this in your config file via the `:base_path`
key:

``` yaml
# ~/.gemstash/config.yml
---
:base_path: "/var/gemstash"
```

When customizing the `base_path`, the directory must exist, otherwise
Gemstash will fail to run. Thus, if you want to use `/var/gemstash` like
in the previous example, make sure to `mkdir /var/gemstash` and grant
access to the directory for the user you run Gemstash with.

## Database

The `:db_adapter` configuration key specifies what database you will be
using. The default `:db_adapter` is
[`sqlite3`](https://www.sqlite.org/), which will use a database file
located within your `:base_path`. The database file will always be named
`gemstash.db`.

You may also use [`postgres`](http://www.postgresql.org/),
[`mysql`](http://www.mysql.com/), or
[`mysql2`](http://sequel.jeremyevans.net/rdoc/files/doc/opening_databases_rdoc.html#label-mysql2)
for your `:db_adapter`. When using any of these options, you need to
specify the `:db_url` to point to an existing database. Here is an
example configuration to use the `postgres` adapter:

``` yaml
# ~/.gemstash/config.yml
---
:db_adapter: postgres
:db_url: postgres:///gemstash
:db_connection_options: # Sequel.connect options
  :connect_timeout: 10
  :read_timeout: 5
  :timeout: 30
```

Regardless of the adapter you choose, the database will automatically
migrate to your version of Gemstash whenever the database is needed. You
only need to ensure the database exists and Gemstash will do the rest,
except for `sqlite3` (for which Gemstash will also create the database
for you).

## Cache

Certain things (like dependencies) are cached in memory. This avoids web
calls to the gem source, and database calls for private gems. The memory
cache can optionally be swapped out with a
[Memcached](http://memcached.org/) server (or cluster of servers). To
use Memcached, you must update the `:cache_type` configuration key to be
`memcached`, and provide the servers via the `:memcached_servers`
configuration key:

``` yaml
# ~/.gemstash/config.yml
---
:cache_type: memcached
:memcached_servers: memcached1.local:11211,memcached2.local:11211
```

Note that the `:memcached_servers` requires a comma separated list of
servers. All caching lasts for 30 minutes.

## Server

Gemstash uses [Puma](http://puma.io/) and [Rack](http://rack.github.io/)
as the server. Alternate server configurations are not currently
supported, but you can take a look at the [Puma
configuration](https://github.com/bundler/gemstash/blob/master/lib/gemstash/puma.rb)
and the [rackup
file](https://github.com/bundler/gemstash/blob/master/lib/gemstash/config.ru)
for inspiration.

While the server is not customizable, the way Gemstash binds the port
can be changed. To change the binding, update the `:bind` configuration
key:

``` yaml
# ~/.gemstash/config.yml
---
:bind: tcp://0.0.0.0:4242
```

This maps directly to the [Puma bind
flag](https://github.com/puma/puma#binding-tcp--sockets), and will
support anything valid for that flag.

The number of threads Puma uses is also customizable via the
`:puma_threads` configuration key. The default is `16`.

## Protected Fetch

Gemstash by default allows unauthenticated access for private gems.
Authenticated access is available via the `:protected_fetch`
configuration key.

``` yaml
# ~/.gemstash/config.yml
---
:protected_fetch: true
```

More details on [protected\_fetch are
here](gemstash-private-gems.7.md#protected-fetching).

## Fetch Timeout

The default fetch timeout is 20 seconds. Use the `:fetch_timeout`
configuration key to change it.

``` yaml
---
:fetch_timeout: 20
```

## Config File Location

By default, configuration for Gemstash will be at
`~/.gemstash/config.yml`. This can be changed by providing the
`--config-file` option to the various Gemstash commands:

    $ gemstash setup --config-file ./gemstash-config.yml
    $ gemstash authorize --config-file ./gemstash-config.yml
    $ gemstash start --config-file ./gemstash-config.yml
    $ gemstash stop --config-file ./gemstash-config.yml
    $ gemstash status --config-file ./gemstash-config.yml

When providing `--config-file` to `gemstash setup`, the provided file
will be output to with the provided configuration. **This will
overwrite** any existing configuration. If the file doesn’t exist when
providing `--config-file` to `gemstash start`, `gemstash stop`,
`gemstash status`, and `gemstash authorize`, the default configuration
will be used.

### ERB parsed config

You may also create a `~/.gemstash/config.yml.erb` file. If present,
this will be used instead of `~/.gemstash/config.yml`. For example, with
this you can use environment variables in the config:

``` yaml
# ~/.gemstash/config.yml.erb
---
:db_adapter: postgres
:db_url: <%= ENV["DATABASE_URL"] %>
```

Commit message:

Update docs on customize, private gems

docs/gemstash-customize.7.md, after:

<!--Automatically generated by Pandoc -->

# Customizing the Server

Although Gemstash is designed for as minimal setup as possible, there
may be times you will want to change some of the default configuration.
By the end of this guide, you will be able to customize some of the
Gemstash behavior, including where files are stored, what database
Gemstash uses, and how Gemstash caches certain requests.

## Setup

Several customizable options are available via an interactive Gemstash
command. Run `gemstash setup` and answer the questions it provides (a
blank answer will use the default value):

> $ gemstash setup  
> Where should files go? \[\~/.gemstash\]  
> Cache with what? \[MEMORY, memcached\] **memcached**  
> What is the comma separated Memcached servers? \[localhost:11211\]  
> What database adapter? \[SQLITE3, postgres, mysql, mysql2\]
> **postgres**  
> Where is the database? \[postgres:///gemstash\]  
> Checking that the cache is available  
> Checking that the database is available  
> The database is not available  

Once you’ve answered the questions, some checks will be made to ensure
the configuration will work. For example, the database didn’t exist in
the previous example, so the command failed and the configuration wasn’t
saved. If the command passes, you may provide the `--redo` option to
force configuration to be redone:

> `$ gemstash setup --redo`  
> Where should files go? \[\~/.gemstash\]  
> Cache with what? \[MEMORY, memcached\] **memcached**  
> What is the comma separated Memcached servers? \[localhost:11211\]  
> What database adapter? \[SQLITE3, postgres, mysql, mysql2\]  
> Checking that the cache is available  
> Checking that the database is available  
> You are all setup\!  

Once all checks have passed, Gemstash will store your answers in the
configuration file located at `~/.gemstash/config.yml`.

## Files

Storage in Gemstash defaults to `~/.gemstash` unless otherwise
specified. You can change this in your config file via the `:base_path`
key:

``` yaml
# ~/.gemstash/config.yml
---
:base_path: "/var/gemstash"
```

When customizing the `base_path`, the directory must exist, otherwise
Gemstash will fail to run. Thus, if you want to use `/var/gemstash` like
in the previous example, make sure to `mkdir /var/gemstash` and grant
access to the directory for the user you run Gemstash with.

## Database

The `:db_adapter` configuration key specifies what database you will be
using. The default `:db_adapter` is
[`sqlite3`](https://www.sqlite.org/), which will use a database file
located within your `:base_path`. The database file will always be named
`gemstash.db`.

You may also use [`postgres`](http://www.postgresql.org/),
[`mysql`](http://www.mysql.com/), or
[`mysql2`](http://sequel.jeremyevans.net/rdoc/files/doc/opening_databases_rdoc.html#label-mysql2)
for your `:db_adapter`. When using any of these options, you need to
specify the `:db_url` to point to an existing database. Here is an
example configuration to use the `postgres` adapter:

``` yaml
# ~/.gemstash/config.yml
---
:db_adapter: postgres
:db_url: postgres:///gemstash
:db_connection_options: # Sequel.connect options
  :connect_timeout: 10
  :read_timeout: 5
  :timeout: 30
```

Regardless of the adapter you choose, the database will automatically
migrate to your version of Gemstash whenever the database is needed. You
only need to ensure the database exists and Gemstash will do the rest,
except for `sqlite3` (for which Gemstash will also create the database
for you).

## Cache

Certain things (like dependencies) are cached in memory. This avoids web
calls to the gem source, and database calls for private gems.

``` yaml
# ~/.gemstash/config.yml
---
:cache_type: memory
:cache_max_size: 2000
```

This configuration uses the default `memory` cache, and has increased
the `cache_max_size` setting from its default of 500 items.

The memory cache can optionally be swapped out with a
[Memcached](http://memcached.org/) server (or cluster of servers).

To use Memcached, use the `memcached` `:cache_type` configuration.

Provide the servers as a comma-separated list to the
`:memcached_servers` configuration key:

``` yaml
# ~/.gemstash/config.yml
---
:cache_type: memcached
:memcached_servers: memcached1.local:11211,memcached2.local:11211
:cache_expiration: 1800
```

All caching expires in `cache_expiration` number of seconds. Default is
1800 seconds (30 minutes). This option applies to all caching.

## Server

Gemstash uses [Puma](http://puma.io/) and [Rack](http://rack.github.io/)
as the server. Alternate server configurations are not currently
supported, but you can take a look at the [Puma
configuration](https://github.com/bundler/gemstash/blob/master/lib/gemstash/puma.rb)
and the [rackup
file](https://github.com/bundler/gemstash/blob/master/lib/gemstash/config.ru)
for inspiration.

While the server is not customizable, the way Gemstash binds the port
can be changed. To change the binding, update the `:bind` configuration
key:

``` yaml
# ~/.gemstash/config.yml
---
:bind: tcp://0.0.0.0:4242
```

This maps directly to the [Puma bind
flag](https://github.com/puma/puma#binding-tcp--sockets), and will
support anything valid for that flag.

The number of threads Puma uses is also customizable via the
`:puma_threads` configuration key. The default is `16`.

## Protected Fetch

Gemstash by default allows unauthenticated access for private gems.
Authenticated access is available via the `:protected_fetch`
configuration key.

``` yaml
# ~/.gemstash/config.yml
---
:protected_fetch: true
```

More details on [protected\_fetch are
here](gemstash-private-gems.7.md#protected-fetching).

## Fetch Timeout

The default fetch timeout is 20 seconds. Use the `:fetch_timeout`
configuration key to change it.

``` yaml
---
:fetch_timeout: 20
```

## Config File Location

By default, configuration for Gemstash will be at
`~/.gemstash/config.yml`. This can be changed by providing the
`--config-file` option to the various Gemstash commands:

    $ gemstash setup --config-file ./gemstash-config.yml
    $ gemstash authorize --config-file ./gemstash-config.yml
    $ gemstash start --config-file ./gemstash-config.yml
    $ gemstash stop --config-file ./gemstash-config.yml
    $ gemstash status --config-file ./gemstash-config.yml

When providing `--config-file` to `gemstash setup`, the provided file
will be output to with the provided configuration. **This will
overwrite** any existing configuration. If the file doesn’t exist when
providing `--config-file` to `gemstash start`, `gemstash stop`,
`gemstash status`, and `gemstash authorize`, the default configuration
will be used.

### ERB parsed config

You may also create a `~/.gemstash/config.yml.erb` file. If present,
this will be used instead of `~/.gemstash/config.yml`. For example, with
this you can use environment variables in the config:

``` yaml
# ~/.gemstash/config.yml.erb
---
:db_adapter: postgres
:db_url: <%= ENV["DATABASE_URL"] %>
```
