<!--Automatically generated by Pandoc -->
Name
====

gemstash-authorize - Adds or removes authorization to interact with privately stored gems

Synopsis
========

`gemstash authorize [permissions] [--remove] [--key SECURE_KEY] [--config-file FILE]`

Description
===========

Adds or removes authorization to interact with privately stored gems.

Any arguments will be used as specific permissions. Valid permissions include `push`, `yank`, and `fetch`. If no permissions are provided, then all permissions will be granted (including any that may be added in future versions of Gemstash).

Usage
-----

    gemstash authorize
    gemstash authorize push yank
    gemstash authorize yank --key <secure-key>
    gemstash authorize --remove --key <secure-key>

Options
=======

-   `--config-file FILE`: Specify the config file to use. If you aren't using the default config file at `~/.gemstash/config.yml` or [`~/.gemstash/config.yml.erb`](gemstash-customize.7.md#erb-parsed-config), then you must specify the config file via this option.

-   `--key SECURE_KEY`: Specify the API key to affect. This should be the actual key value, not a name. This option is required when using `--remove` but is optional otherwise. If adding an authorization, using this will either create or update the permissions for the specified API key. If missing, a new API key will always be generated. Note that a key can only have a maximum length of 255 chars.

-   `--remove`: Remove an authorization rather than add or update one. When removing, permission values are not allowed. The `--key <secure-key>` option is required.
