docs/gemstash-configuration.5.md, before:

<!--Automatically generated by Pandoc -->
Name
====

gemstash-configuration

Synopsis
========

``` yaml
# ~/.gemstash/config.yml
---
:base_path: "/var/gemstash"
:cache_type: memcached
:memcached_servers: localhost:11211
:db_adapter: postgres
:db_url: postgres:///gemstash
:db_connection_options:
  :test: true
  :pool_timeout: 2
:rubygems_url: https://my.gem-source.local
:puma_threads: 32
:bind: tcp://0.0.0.0:4242
:protected_fetch: true
:fetch_timeout: 10
:log_file: gemstash.log
```

Base Path
=========

`:base_path`

Specifies where to store local files like the server log, cached gem files, and the database (when using SQLite). If the default is being used, the directory will be created if it does not exist. Any other directory needs to be created ahead of time and be writable to the Gemstash server process. Specifying the `:base_path` via [`gemstash setup`](gemstash-setup.1.md) will create the directory for you.

Default value
-------------

`~/.gemstash`

Valid values
------------

Any valid path

Cache Type
==========

`:cache_type`

Specifies how to cache values other than gem files (such as gem dependencies). `memory` will use an in memory cache while `memcached` will point to 1 or more Memcached servers. Use the `:memcached_servers` configuration key for specifying where the Memcached server(s) are.

Default value
-------------

`memory`

Valid values
------------

`memory`, `memcached`

Memcached Servers
=================

`:memcached_servers`

Specifies the Memcached servers to connect to when using `memcached` for the `:cache_type`. Only used when `memcached` is used for `:cache_type`.

Default value
-------------

`localhost:11211`

Valid values
------------

A comma delimited list of Memcached servers

DB Adapter
==========

`:db_adapter`

Specifies what database adapter to use. When `sqlite3` is used, the database will be located at `gemstash.db` within the directory specified by `:base_path`. The database will automatically be created when using `sqlite3`. When `postgres`, `mysql`, or `mysql2` is used, the database to connect to must be specified in the `:db_url` configuration key. The database must already be created when using anything other than `sqlite3`.

Default value
-------------

`sqlite3`

Valid values
------------

`sqlite3`, `postgres`, `mysql`, `mysql2`

DB URL
======

`:db_url`

Specifies the database to connect to when using `postgres`, `mysql`, or `mysql2` for the `:db_adapter`. Only used when the `:db_adapter` is not `sqlite3`.

Default value
-------------

None

Valid values
------------

A valid database URL for the [Sequel gem](http://sequel.jeremyevans.net/)

DB Connection Options
=====================

`:db_connection_options`

Specifies additional `Sequel.connect` options to use. Note that any options here are merged in with the default options, so you need not specify the `max_connections` if you customize this option.

Default value
-------------

`{ max_connections: 1 }` for `sqlite3` adapter, `{ max_connections: config[:puma_threads] + 1 }` for any other adapter.

Valid values
------------

A valid connection options Hash for the [Sequel.connect](http://sequel.jeremyevans.net/rdoc/files/doc/opening_databases_rdoc.html#label-General+connection+options) method.

Rubygems URL
============

`:rubygems_url`

Specifies the default gem source URL. When any API endpoint is called without a `/private` or `/upstream/<url>` prefix, this URL will be used to fetch the result. This value can be safely changed even if there are already gems stashed for the previous value.

Default value
-------------

`https://rubygems.org`

Valid values
------------

A valid gem source URL

Puma Threads
============

`:puma_threads`

Specifies the number of threads used for the Gemstash server.

Default value
-------------

`16`

Valid values
------------

Integer value with a minimum of `1`

Bind Address
============

`:bind`

Specifies the binding used to start the Gemstash server. Keep in mind the user starting Gemstash needs to have access to bind in this manner. For example, if you use a port below 1024, you will need to run Gemstash as the root user.

Default value
-------------

`tcp://0.0.0.0:9292`

Valid values
------------

Any valid binding that [is supported by Puma](https://github.com/puma/puma#binding-tcp--sockets)

Protected Fetch
===============

`:protected_fetch`

Tells Gemstash to authenticate via an API key before allowing the fetching of private gems and specs. The default behavior is to allow unauthenticated download of private gems and specs.

Default value
-------------

`false`

Valid values
------------

Boolean values `true` or `false`

Fetch Timeout
=============

`:fetch_timeout`

The timeout setting for fetching gems. Fetching gems over a slow connection may cause timeout errors. If you experience timeout errors, you may want to increase this value. The default is `20` seconds.

Default value
-------------

`20`

Valid values
------------

Integer value with a minimum of `1`

Log File
========

`:log_file`

Indicates the name of the file to use for logging. The file will be placed in the [base path](gemstash-configuration.5.md#base-path).

Default value
-------------

`server.log`

Valid values
------------

Any valid file name

Commit message:

Allow logging to stdout via config

docs/gemstash-configuration.5.md, after:

<!--Automatically generated by Pandoc -->
Name
====

gemstash-configuration

Synopsis
========

``` yaml
# ~/.gemstash/config.yml
---
:base_path: "/var/gemstash"
:cache_type: memcached
:memcached_servers: localhost:11211
:db_adapter: postgres
:db_url: postgres:///gemstash
:db_connection_options:
  :test: true
  :pool_timeout: 2
:rubygems_url: https://my.gem-source.local
:puma_threads: 32
:bind: tcp://0.0.0.0:4242
:protected_fetch: true
:fetch_timeout: 10
:log_file: gemstash.log
```

Base Path
=========

`:base_path`

Specifies where to store local files like the server log, cached gem files, and the database (when using SQLite). If the default is being used, the directory will be created if it does not exist. Any other directory needs to be created ahead of time and be writable to the Gemstash server process. Specifying the `:base_path` via [`gemstash setup`](gemstash-setup.1.md) will create the directory for you.

Default value
-------------

`~/.gemstash`

Valid values
------------

Any valid path

Cache Type
==========

`:cache_type`

Specifies how to cache values other than gem files (such as gem dependencies). `memory` will use an in memory cache while `memcached` will point to 1 or more Memcached servers. Use the `:memcached_servers` configuration key for specifying where the Memcached server(s) are.

Default value
-------------

`memory`

Valid values
------------

`memory`, `memcached`

Memcached Servers
=================

`:memcached_servers`

Specifies the Memcached servers to connect to when using `memcached` for the `:cache_type`. Only used when `memcached` is used for `:cache_type`.

Default value
-------------

`localhost:11211`

Valid values
------------

A comma delimited list of Memcached servers

DB Adapter
==========

`:db_adapter`

Specifies what database adapter to use. When `sqlite3` is used, the database will be located at `gemstash.db` within the directory specified by `:base_path`. The database will automatically be created when using `sqlite3`. When `postgres`, `mysql`, or `mysql2` is used, the database to connect to must be specified in the `:db_url` configuration key. The database must already be created when using anything other than `sqlite3`.

Default value
-------------

`sqlite3`

Valid values
------------

`sqlite3`, `postgres`, `mysql`, `mysql2`

DB URL
======

`:db_url`

Specifies the database to connect to when using `postgres`, `mysql`, or `mysql2` for the `:db_adapter`. Only used when the `:db_adapter` is not `sqlite3`.

Default value
-------------

None

Valid values
------------

A valid database URL for the [Sequel gem](http://sequel.jeremyevans.net/)

DB Connection Options
=====================

`:db_connection_options`

Specifies additional `Sequel.connect` options to use. Note that any options here are merged in with the default options, so you need not specify the `max_connections` if you customize this option.

Default value
-------------

`{ max_connections: 1 }` for `sqlite3` adapter, `{ max_connections: config[:puma_threads] + 1 }` for any other adapter.

Valid values
------------

A valid connection options Hash for the [Sequel.connect](http://sequel.jeremyevans.net/rdoc/files/doc/opening_databases_rdoc.html#label-General+connection+options) method.

Rubygems URL
============

`:rubygems_url`

Specifies the default gem source URL. When any API endpoint is called without a `/private` or `/upstream/<url>` prefix, this URL will be used to fetch the result. This value can be safely changed even if there are already gems stashed for the previous value.

Default value
-------------

`https://rubygems.org`

Valid values
------------

A valid gem source URL

Puma Threads
============

`:puma_threads`

Specifies the number of threads used for the Gemstash server.

Default value
-------------

`16`

Valid values
------------

Integer value with a minimum of `1`

Bind Address
============

`:bind`

Specifies the binding used to start the Gemstash server. Keep in mind the user starting Gemstash needs to have access to bind in this manner. For example, if you use a port below 1024, you will need to run Gemstash as the root user.

Default value
-------------

`tcp://0.0.0.0:9292`

Valid values
------------

Any valid binding that [is supported by Puma](https://github.com/puma/puma#binding-tcp--sockets)

Protected Fetch
===============

`:protected_fetch`

Tells Gemstash to authenticate via an API key before allowing the fetching of private gems and specs. The default behavior is to allow unauthenticated download of private gems and specs.

Default value
-------------

`false`

Valid values
------------

Boolean values `true` or `false`

Fetch Timeout
=============

`:fetch_timeout`

The timeout setting for fetching gems. Fetching gems over a slow connection may cause timeout errors. If you experience timeout errors, you may want to increase this value. The default is `20` seconds.

Default value
-------------

`20`

Valid values
------------

Integer value with a minimum of `1`

Log File
========

`:log_file`

Indicates the name of the file to use for logging. The file will be placed in the [base path](gemstash-configuration.5.md#base-path).

Default value
-------------

`server.log`

Valid values
------------

Any valid file name, or `:stdout` to log to `$stdout`
